1. What is your experiment idea?


Our aim is to identify regions of good vegetation health and spot trends to find desertified regions which could be reclaimed via crops or tree planting. This would have a beneficial impact on poorer communities, climate change, and help alleviate the global food crisis in the growing population leading to food security in communities.
To analyse plant health, we plan to use continentality and latitude in conjunction with the following vegetation indices (all of which can be calculated as described in the next question). There are many potential indices and we have carefully considered the most robust and suitable ones.


The steps of indices and analysis are as follows:
1. SAVI - to determine the landscape type (rocky, desert, forest etc). Chosen over NDVI because it is more precise and accurate due to accounting for soil brightness affecting light. We will use the ESA recommended L value of 0.428 in our equation.
2. NDWI - to determine optimal water requirements in areas of high biomass and identify regions with enough water for biomass to grow.
3. RCI - to determine plant health. Healthier and less stressed plants have more chlorophyll (which can be measured via this index). We are using this over GCI to simplify the data extracted from images, as we can ignore the green band altogether, which can help reduce errors in the program. Both GCI and RCI have similar success rates.
4. Use location data from the Astro-pi to analyse how latitude affects plant growth, and help us plot the results on a map for our report. 
5. Calculate how much land each pixel in the image represents in order to understand the spatial benefits of our experiment.


The above will help us determine ideal characteristics for vegetation growth, and find regions where there is more potential for vegetation leading to extra carbon storage and therefore alleviating some of the stress of climate change.




































2. How will you use the Astro Pi computers to perform your experiment?




We will use the camera fitted with the Near-InfraRed Filter to calculate the 3 indices required. All of the indices require a combination of red and NIR light bands (light bands available to us via the NIR filter). Our program will:


1. Take an image
2. Onboard processing will determine if the image is ‘useless’ - if the image is taken over the ocean or at nighttime, the program will recognise this (via pixel patterns and average pixel values, in conjunction with location data) and delete the image, hence eliminating unnecessary processing and keeping storage requirements below the 3GB threshold.
3. If the image passes the ‘useful’ filter test, then the Astro-Pi will save it permanently with a timestamp and location in the EXIF data.
4. Finally, the Astro-Pi will use Ground Sampling Distance to estimate the size of land represented by each pixel in the image and save this with each image. To do this, we will take measurements such as ISS altitude and calculate it. Knowing the ground size of each pixel will help us determine how much potential desertified land could be reforested/converted to farmland in our report.


Back on Earth, we will sort the data and analyse it to find spatial and conditional trends, aided with the ’matplotlib’ python module to reduce the chance of human error whilst plotting graphs. There are numerous ways to convert the NIR images to represent the indices we want, such as ArcGIS’s python module, ‘arcpy’. Finally, we will write a report where we describe the findings.